6 ADVERSE REACTIONS
The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling:
Anaphylactic reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1)]
Drug-Induced Enterocolitis Syndrome (DIES) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)]
CDAD [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3)]
6.1 Clinical Trials Experience
Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction
rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the
clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice.
The most common adverse reactions (> 1%) observed in clinical trials of amoxicillin
capsules, were diarrhea, rash, vomiting, and nausea.
Triple therapy: The most frequently reported adverse events for patients who
received triple therapy (amoxicillin /clarithromycin/lansoprazole) were diarrhea (7%),
headache (6%), and taste perversion (5%).
Dual therapy: The most frequently reported adverse events for patients who received
double therapy amoxicillin/lansoprazole were diarrhea (8%) and headache (7%). For
more information on adverse reactions with clarithromycin or lansoprazole, refer to the
Adverse Reactions section of their package inserts.
6.2 Postmarketing or Other Experience
In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been
identified during postmarketing use of penicillins. Because they are reported voluntarily
from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These
events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of their seriousness,
frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to amoxicillin capsules.
Infections and Infestations:Mucocutaneous candidiasis.
Gastrointestinal:Drug-induced enterocolitis syndrome (DIES), black hairy tongue,
and hemorrhagic/pseudomembranous colitis. Onset of pseudomembranous colitis
symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment [see Warnings and
Precautions ( 5.3)] .
Hypersensitivity Reactions:Anaphylaxis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1)] .
Serum sickness–like reactions, erythematous maculopapular rashes, erythema
multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, toxic epidermal
necrolysis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, linear IgA bullous
dermatosis, hypersensitivity vasculitis, and urticaria have been reported.
Liver:A moderate rise in AST and/or ALT has been noted, but the significance of this
finding is unknown. Hepatic dysfunction including cholestatic jaundice, hepatic
cholestasis and acute cytolytic hepatitis have been reported.
Renal:Crystalluria has been reported[see Overdosage ( 10)] .
Hemic and Lymphatic Systems:Anemia, including hemolytic anemia,
thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, eosinophilia, leukopenia, and
agranulocytosis have been reported. These reactions are usually reversible on
discontinuation of therapy and are believed to be hypersensitivity phenomena.
Central Nervous System:Reversible hyperactivity, agitation, anxiety,
insomnia, confusion, convulsions, behavioral changes, and/or dizziness have been
reported
Miscellaneous:Tooth discoloration (brown, yellow, or gray staining ) has been
reported. Most reports occurred in pediatric patients. Discoloration was reduced or
eliminated with brushing or dental cleaning in most cases.